# SoftwareSecurityPortfolio
Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial is a consulting company that creates unique financial plans for their customers. They are looking to modernize their systems and part of that includes making suere their custom software is up to date with the most current and effective security measures. They have reached out to Global Rain to seek expertise about how to better protect themselves from external threats.

What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
I think I did a good job carefully looking over the vulnerabilities in the dependency check. I found that a majority of the issues would be resolved by simply just updating the vulnerable packages to a newer version. After doing so there were little to no issues found in secondary run of the dependency check. There are a number of reasons to code securely. Number 1 being keeping bad guys away from you and your customer's sensitive data. This can lead to lawsuits which will cost the business money and their reputation. The value that Software security brings to a company is peace of mind. The reason I say this is the same as the reason it is important to code securely. Knowing that your company, your software, and even your data are protected by security measures saves the company the trouble of a legal issue, money, and ensures their customers trust in them.

What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
At first I found it difficult to understand which ones were false positives and mostly just took my best guess. What finally helped me was on the final project I took the time to update the dependencies and was able to see most of them clear up as I slowly incremented the updates. I actually only updated spring boot all the way until there were no updates and no new errors with those updates. It left me with two issues. One of those issues was disputed and the other was related to a specific functionality that was not even used in the code. It was also useful to understand how to supress those false positives.


How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
I slowly implemented different functionality that increased the different layers of security. First of all I implemented secure and quality code. There was no input in this application at this point so no input validation is needed. However the code that was implemented does have exception handling. After this I implemented SSL to make sure the data transmitted over apis is secure. I ran the dependency check and made sure we were not vulnerable from out of date libraries. If the application were fully fledged out I would recommend a penetration test or have your internal dev team try things such as SQL injection or Cross Site Scripting to see if there are any potential security issues.

How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
I ran a secondary dependency check and found the vulnerabilities were the same. I updated dependencies and saw the count go down all the way until I just had two false positives. After this I ran the application and tried to break it by navigating to pages that didn't exist, passing in variables, messing with the dev tools, and so on. I did not feel that for the status of the project that there were any serious issues.

What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
I used OOP, Google to find Maven dependency versions, Google to find spring-boot documentation, I used stack overflow to get a better understanding of solutions of modern technology, I used the Eclipse Keystore tool to generate a new keystore and certificate to make my site secure. Overall knowing how to generate a keystore will be helpful.

Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
I would show them how I ran the the dependency check that showed a bunch of vulnerabilities. I would then show them how I made changes to the application to remove the vulnerabilities from the dependency check to secure the site. I would show them that I know how to launch maven applications from the command line and that I was able to enable SSL in the application.
